choose between three creatures, spawn in randomly generated terrain world.
Spawnfield is activated. The wild creatures are usually maxed at 2 levels below the average level of the player's active creatures, minimum of 5 levels below. (idea: occasionally, there will be a high level wild creature with a different team Id that attacks other wild creatures, maybe based on its species or just for randomness).
The player can collect berries that they can then plant onto the ground to farm. The player can then collect wood from trees by having the pet destroy trees, making a structure that creates a friendly zone that makes various things easier (ideas: make wild things more tameable, keep more aggressive wild creatures out, heal pets per second, etc).
The main goal is to take down the boss creatures created by a mad scientist. Lorewise, these creatures are destroying ecosystems or something. Maybe another pathway is to lead creatures to their best biomes (giant ice monster goes to tundra instead of wreaking havoc in jungle, etc). The gameplay loop goal is to level up your creatures and find morph energy (or points) to morph them. Cyclical loop (day/night) is to build and gather resources and train at day and defend or sleep at night.
Three creatures are able to be brought out to follow you around, battle, etc. although you can only fully control one by commanding its position and abilities in manual command mode. Battling in specific biomes gives specific morph points. Specific morphs give specific movesets and such
things to readd:
Currently, in addXP, even before, it is a fixed amount. It should somewhat scale with the defeated creature so that pets in smaller levels level up quicker. The growthstats are also fixed for all creatures when leveling up. Right now, when taming a creature into the party, it recovers all creatures will full health. Currently, this bug is helpful gameplay wise although it might reset buffs too.
There is also no composite based resistances against each type of move but there is also no move category so it makes sense. There is also no inherent values or IVs.
For the world, it should be a voxel-ish world instead of just separated only by biome.
